# cable.js

An effect system and FRP runtime for JavaScript

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/whatgoodisaroad/cablejs/master/assets/cablejs-400x192.png)

## What is cable.js?

cable.js is an Functional Reactive Programming (FRP) runtime, an event system,
and module loader all unified under a common syntax.

One way to think of cable.js is in terms of require.js. Require allows you to 
write scripts that depend on other scripts. This is generally only used at 
module-level granularity, but the internals of require.js handle all the 
dependencies for you. But what if you wanted code that depended on *data*, or 
an *event*, or a live-updating JSON feed? Cable.js works like a fancy require.js
that lets you depend on any of these things, and it handles the internals for 
you.

Another way of thinking about cable.js is in FRP terms. FRP is a style of 
writing code that depends on live-updating information. Instead of writing code
that uses *data*, you write code that uses a *stream of data*. You write code
that builds up a graph of such dependencies, and changes in the data ripples 
outward towards it's dependents via a graph traversal.

## Example

A simple example would be a markdown previewer. We'd like a page where one can 
write markdown code and have a live-updating preview of the resulting HTML. So,
we write some elements for the input and the output:

    <textarea id="input"></textarea>
    <div id="output"></div>

What remains is to use cable.js to connect the input to the output via a
markdown compiler.

    Cable.define({
      $:Cable.library("jquery.min.js"),
      marked:Cable.library("marked.js"),

      source:Cable.textbox("#input"),
      dest:function($, marked, source) {
        $("#output").html(marked(source()));
      }
    });

That's it! This is all the code needed to have a live updating preview. It's 
vanilla JavaScript running in strict mode: no fake pseudo-JS syntax that needs 
to be pre-processed. No magic markup tags that need to be synchronized.

A working example of this previewer can be found in `examples/markdown.htm` in 
the repository. Consult the *Building* section of the readme for help running 
the example.

Cable can do much more. There are a number of different kinds of nodes which can
be added to the graph, including different kinds of events, data-sources, 
synthetic-data-sources, effects, libraries and cable-modules. Some of this can 
be seen in the examples, but a tutorial and API documentation is coming soon.

## Building

All the build dependencies are managed through NPM, so you'll need to install 
that first. One you've cloned the repository. You can install dependencies 
locally using:

    npm install

At this point, you can now build cable.js using:

    grunt build

To run the examples, you should also run `bower install` in the `examples` 
directory to get front-end dependencies used by some of the examples.
